welcome everyone to this week's IPL
these weekly sync meeting it's true like
the SiC 2020 and as every week we go
over the stuff that we've worked on and
will work on next week and then discuss
open issues or answer questions so feel
free to draw in and yeah I started
myself so I was on vacations for two
weeks so I don't have any work to report
well before my vacations I worked a bit
on rusts i--please stuff and rust motif
all my stuff and next is just catching
up with the stuff I missed and probably
quite a bit of ficon work so I'm not
sure if I won't do much IP work this
week but I will surely catch up so and
expect me to do Kerr reviews and yeah we
visit on questions but development - I
probably do mostly if I can stuff then
next on my own this is Peter
yes so as far as I did things go
everything I did was basically
tangential while trying to figure out
how to test our Dumbo drop off 9000 at
the end I guess he ended up in a minor
and apparently what was his harder to
keep up as a demon than I originally
thought it would be so third time is a
charm going to another set up right now
hopefully full of land deal flow tend to
end with multiple nodes and we'll be
able to issue the chorus with this
reckless and stuff like that to actually
check that everything works as
advertised on the dagger front I met
with Michael and tried to kind of
reintroduce them to what what is that
we're doing you know with this set of
tools a lot of like alignments happened
there because Michael wasn't actually
aware which direction used to went and
we are going to figure out sometime this
week what our next steps are but like
step 0.5 seems to be that we'll see we
can cross compile it either in parcels
home to Osman see how that will work
because everybody who who Michael knows
would be interested in this is very very
much in the wasn't realm so that's that
and also had a long meeting with the
person I never remember his name I'm
sorry the person working on rest UNIX FS
add command and walk them through what
are actually the components of adding
something to ipfs
and which parts - basically for steak
which ones they can do they don't things
like that because I should be away
longer discussion than I originally
anticipated
and that's pretty much my week
cool I see also updates from Chris yeah
so last week was family just kind of
digging into Dumbo drop code and doing a
lot of refactoring so come so the key
highlights are creating a visual studio
code containers configuration which if
you haven't played that before it's kind
of cool because you can kind of
encapsulate your whole tool chain and
dependencies in a docker container and
then just basically spin that up so it
helps people get started really quick as
opposed to figure out version conflicts
or the other dependencies smoke test
basically runner real quick to make sure
I didn't break anything and 68 unit
tests that run under 20 milliseconds so
that's pretty nice to make sure I don't
break anything and lots of source code
document documentation so that was
mainly around the there's like mainly I
guess three phases the first ones the
most involved from the project point of
view where it does parses files and
converts them into IP LD box and that's
pretty in pretty good shape and I'm
working on the second part right now
which is creating car parts and it's
much simpler but kind of having a hard
time making it a test run because of the
getting things inject properly is kind
of hard and one question for rod there's
a dependency on Jas data store car and
it was on a branch called complete graph
which isn't there anymore but there's an
AR bag emerged what's that it got merged
and it's in NPM it's just data store car
so just install the latest data store
car and it should it should work that
that branch was merged a little bit
changed but that should work as it is
okay that's my update things
[Music]
almost so one small piece of news is
that there is now at V zero point five
tag of glide pill T Prime and it just
does some API changes gets them out of
the way
I have one about this last week and now
it's done push tag though it should be
easy to absorb for anyone that needs to
do so it's big news that I've got this
week is we have Cochin for unions and
that is really exciting to me that was
one of the parts of the implementation
progress table that had a bunch of well
knows in it and now it's got at least a
couple of nice screen check marks so
this is kind of a big deal because
unions despite possibly sounding simple
and generally turned out to be one of
the trickiest parts of Cochin and the
schema system and then especially to
implement because they involve making so
many choices based on what about what
data they expect to be within them
they're actually a lot harder to deal
with than anything else like structs
destruct you know you're going to have
all of these things and that's simple
enough in the case of a union you're
going to have one of these different
things and you're going to need to
branch wildly based on which one it is
and so they just they turn out to have a
lot more code than you would maybe
naively expects so having even so far
there's only one representation mode
implemented and that's key because that
was also the easiest to do by far and
will be the most performant but we've
got the keyed representation and the
type of semantics both implemented now
and so that will get us pretty far and
you just like proves out the core design
around them works coherently which is
just a huge relief so this gets us
really close to the point of being able
to do a bunch of late
cool practical things I've basically not
written the schema today's that doesn't
have at least one UT minute so that we
finally got this is like yes we're gonna
almost even self host the schema schema
almost the one big caveat there is that
I used inline Union representations in
the schema schema and so I'm actually
thinking of changing the schema schema
to back that out and switch them over to
keep unions because kikyo's are just
better anyway and it would happen to
make this self hosting thing a lot
easier so maybe they haven't taken
action on that yet the like probably
yeah so that's exciting
I've had a couple conversations with rod
about Doc's I think we just need to
carry those further harder better faster
stronger and the future I'm just gonna
be doing more I'm so close to getting
the schema schema self hosting code gem
that I kind of want to get that across
the finish line in the next however long
it takes the next fun thing that I have
in there is it turns out that all of a
placeholder type information structures
that I've written just like bootstrap
the thing before I have the self hosting
loop
they can't be created with cycling type
references at the moment so I have to
deal with that and fix the placeholders
at least a long time before I can get
the placeholders completely replaced Oh
some other fun details like that my
future but I will not boil meeting with
them as your experience with inline
unions and your change of heart with the
schema schema suggests that we should
consider revisiting some Doc's about
inline I think I think we might have
downplayed them just saying that they'd
harder to discriminate but maybe we need
to put some more clarity in there about
how this is not this is one of the least
ideals or the lesser ideal Union types
yeah I would really like to clarify that
as much as we possibly can in the docs
it's a feature that we need because
people make data like that and there's a
number but in the wild that we care
about describing it accurately but yeah
the more I get into it the more like the
more I'm just aware of how massive the
performance implications are of these
decisions to like seed unions are just I
think I said this in text in enough
places but for anyone who's watching it
hasn't heard this rant yet with a keyed
union the representation is you've got
the map key and that's you
discriminating and then the value and
the lovely thing about this X and then Y
is the choice is made in the first part
and then you have information to know
what to do at the second part wildly
enough this means you can do it like
efficiently you know what the choices
and some of these other representations
in line especially is really nasty you
don't necessarily know that you're
discriminating information hint is going
to come at the front of this range of
data so if it comes somewhere way at the
back here you have to buffer this data
that you don't have the power to decide
what to do with yet and so your options
for doing anything efficient there is
like there and so well I want us to be
able to support reasoning about that
kind of data it would be great
to encourage people to not do it yeah
there's a bunch of stuff in the schemas
that exist to describe data that we know
exists in the wild but then there's
ideal data that would work really well
with just schemas but the scheme is
describing something that is more ideal
than what a lot of what there is a lot
in the wild so making that
differentiation clear in the Docs to say
hey these schemas should be able to
describe 90% of common data formats that
are out there or debt on layouts but you
should restrict yourself even further
view and like design one from scratch
using this stuff
yeah we should make like a high-level we
should make a meta talk about that
somewhere I linked to it all over the
place for the details of the schema Docs
it's good idea and this discussion is
actually continued in the issue that you
opened last week about a new proposed
Union format called you called a key
sniff it may or may not be a reasonable
name but it's a good place holder for
now but there's an issue cool about this
key sniff union type that would expand
that 90 percent to maybe 95 to describe
more types of data in the world but it
does have all those problems in line
unions that make it less than ideal but
I do unions of this area where they're
trying to capture this area in data
which it's where the sloppiness is in a
lot of data formats that exist in the
wild and more we can capture that within
the safe bounds that scheme is I think
the better but it does open us up to
that sloppiness a lot more so we have to
be very careful to tread very carefully
off the top your head can give an
example of data that's out there that
acquires the inline Union stuff it's a
well he's the thing with with it depends
on who started designing the data so if
you I mean I mean exact examples that
are already designs what I mean
I can't think of my but but but I would
say if you went looking around in the in
the the data that's thrown around by
people that write JavaScript you will
find a lot more examples of this kind of
loose looseness with you know this field
maybe have this thing or it may have
this thing and depending on how I feel
it denotes it depends on what I'm trying
to communicate and and I can deal with
that flexibility because when I when I
DC realize that I've got this object
that I can then manipulate in memory
whereas if where is people who do type
languages need to prepare ahead of time
and say well I do serialize it I need to
really know what's in there so yeah I
can't think of one
but you must be more likely to find
those kinds of examples in the untyped
ecosystem where we could just throw
around these objects and then
deserialize them into these formats and
then make decisions in code much more
easily I guess I'm asking this because
like we are talking specifically about
persistence or storage formats which
normally people do not do the know SQL
stuff in storage formats and that's why
I was like to actually have an example
of that but yeah because interchange yes
I get that anyway yeah I've kind of just
made these choices off of my collective
vague recollection of every JSON
structure I've ever seen in any API ever
undifferentiated Lee exactly and those
are API sorry those are transports
normally nobody stores some JSON on this
I mean okay you know there's nobody
these tools to work for that stuff too
like I've got some developments I want
to do have that kind of Web API thing
and there's no reason that I should you
must be absolutely freaking awesome
I'll be right behind you well in line
unions also have this potential I think
to act in a space where you could have a
complex structure that's got a lot of
optional things or you could
discriminate the two types of script
structures so it does exist in this
space where you have optionality with
how you write schema so because then
that's that's because they're the
examples I can think of like you know I
reached for things like the NPM data
which has got so much optionality in it
so when you describe a package some
fields may be there and some may not
depending on how the author has done
those packages and it's in those
examples where you could say you know
I've got fields an optional optional
optional
or perhaps there's a mode where I
received the data where that I've only
got three fields and all those optionals
disappear so maybe then I'd discriminate
that with the Union say well if I've
only got those three fields then you
know it's a this thing and then if I've
got these other fields then it's a this
thing so that's where that's that that
sloppy space that in line and this key
sniff would exist yeah good point thanks
for and if anyone in listening is
interested more in this stuff there is
in the schema the schema specs which is
on the specs dot IPL dealer IO website
we do have examples of in-line unions
and the other union types if you want to
learn more about all right next one on
my list is a rod yep so mine mine was
another week of lots of little little
things which at the end of the week I
come to and I go I done what I changed
but I did manage to do an accounting of
lots of these little things so it
doesn't doesn't seem as bad as it did in
my head when I first started thinking
about what I've done
so last at the beginning of last week I
finished off the IPL deification of Z
cash dollar and got that is packed up
into car files for file file coin
discover so it doesn't represent like
today's Z cache blocks it has to rewind
a little bit because I what I did now
said do the same thing with Bitcoin I
packed them up into one gig car files
and I didn't have a leftover car file so
wherever the last one gig took me to is
where I stopped but these things could
potentially be added to as well later so
it can be run again so it took me to
about block 810,000 which is within the
last two months I think
and yes that's all done uploaded the
code is complete and works and was much
smoother than Bitcoin because Z cash
have made some better choices with
regard to versioning in their data
format than Bitcoin has and there's
there seems to be a significantly less
amount of people writing novel data than
Bitcoin which is maybe understandable so
this there's fewer edge cases that are
having to be caught so once I've got the
basics in place it ran pretty nicely and
that's that's just that's really
interesting in itself just the way that
people have really been poking and
prodding at Bitcoin to stretch the
format to enable different mining types
and to to pack weird things into the
transactions and people just aren't
doing that with Z cash because it's not
as it's not it's fun or it's not as
profitable so that so the code works
fine it's all good
I've got a lot of code for this stuff
and the Bitcoin working in pull requests
that are not merged there and that's
largely because of document
documentation which is not fully
complete it's the documentation for
bitcoins complete code documentation for
the C cash stuff is not quite complete
and then the next item was is related
which is doing the Bitcoin spec for the
LD repo I filled these specs repo I am
still working on that chipping away at
it's bit tedious and I keep on coming
back to it I told you to finish that up
and then do the Z cache one as well
that's basically where all the my brain
dump about about these formats as
content addressed formats goes so all
the edge cases how to think about its
contents addressed how to bridge the
world of blockchains and
cryptocurrencies with content address
data structures which needs a lot more
bridging than you would think
from from you know a cursory look at the
two things so that's going on I headed
off some compy if I can compete lambda
calculator work to to Chris during the
week he's now gonna have some fun
figuring out how to make this stuff
presentable for presenting to the world
that's all open-source anyway it's just
not very pretty and it also that code
overreach because it was trying to
figure out how to do it and how to do it
effectively enough to run in lambda so
there's a lot that can be trimmed back
there but also some Doc's and also five
coin proofs coders churned a lot since
then so it needs to be updated Falcone
proofs code so Chris he's got that
helped Peter get the file coins CID
stuff and I got merged do you think
admitting it merge disappear no not at
all but it is on their on their board
for the next test net reset which is
about two weeks but it's a massive
change for them just perform a piece
they need to touch so but I basic added
on on their on their board so again good
okay let's not did a rather yesterday
about this is this is something that is
in an area that might be useful to have
some sort of concept docking aspects
about so pricing we continue to face I
think their philosophical differences
with the blockchain world when it comes
to filing and it's the same stuff but
that I have encountered with
Bitcoin in particular but there's
there's a it's this context address
versus blockchains for cryptocurrency
thing when you when you're building a
blockchain and you are thinking about it
from the perspective of a miner you have
a lot of things available to you for
making decisions about your format and
it's changing and it's and its ability
to change over time most notably you
have the chain height so you can make
decisions based on what height your app
at any point in time so say you you're
at a height of some you know a hundred
thousand and you say okay I want to
switch out the way I'm storing these
numbers you know I want to stop I want
to start storing my floats as strings at
that height one hundred thousand you can
do that and all the miners all these
full nodes have that height information
but height is not something that's
stored in the blocks so if your file
format is branch and based on height
then you need you need to be able to
navigate all the way back to the Genesis
block to make that decision when you're
reading the format and from our
perspective when we're viewing content
address data the more locality the
better so when I mean when I encounter a
content address block I've got a hash
and I think of data it's and you've got
a multi codec that says this is the type
of data it is it's nice to be able to
say this is the type of data and I know
how to read it but if you then have to
say okay I have this block but I need
all of the needs a hundred thousand
blocks before it before I know how to
read it that's not ideal and in the in
the blockchain world it's sort of
reasonable for two reasons one is that
most most software that is decoding
these blocks has that information and so
they store height adjacent to the the
binary data they have it so it's not
that big a deal and also that there is
this this philosophical idea where the
block the block chain provides you
security if you can validate it back to
the Genesis block
so there's a tend forward as well so
just having that ability to say this
thing is connected to the Genesis block
is part of the the idea behind a
blockchain and so height is part of that
it's just locality makes everything else
so much easier and so trying to get
these data versioning things into more
localized talk about tools is better and
so as e-cash notably is using their
version for you they've got version
fields in their block headers but also
their transaction transaction so the
units that are content addressed they
have a version field in it and they're
actually using that version field they
have data they've got a version and a
virgin group ID uh-huh and when you
combine these two things you get two and
they write their beginning of the binary
format and so you get to make those
decisions locally okay this is the
version this is version a version group
ID I know how to decode the rest of it I
don't know what it all means
Bitcoin has a version has a version
field bit doesn't use usual as well and
and as far as I know far coin doesn't
really have version fields so I did have
a write-up about that just to pass onto
the file coin team is something we've
talked about a couple times before but
it's never been sticky actually so they
should do here were chosen for our coin
but it is the Bitcoin there what they'll
essentially undefined right now aside
for future use and you know and you
don't define if when you don't define
something you know what you find in it
after a while right yes right yes - -
we'll use that yeah and I actually put
in the document that you put together a
reference to give 9 which is supposedly
a way how to reconcile a single version
field with the business to fork the
chain and how to basically put this all
together
so basically which software will win at
a specific height and that is something
that I'm not sure why like it going to
find it I'm not sure why they didn't
they're using it to them so either they
have a flaw in it or they just never get
consensus that we need to start with
something like that but TL DR is that
for file coins this might actually be a
thing to consider because it isn't
really well thought through from the
album yeah there was a race that you
used fair that I thought was really
interesting and good that some version
fields have been better used than others
and that like so implicitly having a
version field doesn't mean you've
magically fixed it it's it's how you
plan to use it that matters as well yep
it's but especially if you in these
situations where you as the author don't
control how this thing evolves over time
so you can't with a block chain a
cryptocurrency you can't you can't say
well I know how this will evolve over
time because you have to reach consensus
among your miners and you this there's a
good chance you're not gonna be the one
with with the enough power to just make
those decisions so you know this thing
will evolve out of your hands and I
think that's why that's really the story
of Bitcoin is that it's like okay we
planned ahead of time but this thing
just has a life of its own just to do
the in quotes wisdom of crowds
questionable it's on the network and
fools who know how to make more just
later how's that yeah yeah that's yeah
that would be about to just be a
wonderful process to watch okay so okay
that you know that's that's going on in
Google Docs but I don't know if at some
point maybe that will come out its
content in the specs replay anyone wants
to see it let me know but otherwise it's
for what it's worth the more locality
the better and phrasing that as a
continuum that you want to climb yeah
that I think that's how we think but I
don't know how to bridge that to the
blockchain world because I know that's
not how they think and I know and I
think it's reasonable that that's not
their h4 so the challenge is how do we
as people who think in at the block
level communicate that as something and
as an ideal for people that are not
thinking at the block level it's more
like the cost of locality for us is
somewhere there it's abstracted away but
like right now every time I need to
think what is test note this is four
hours for test net which is like we can
I have old this is the point another way
I think so my understanding is the
blockchain for file coin is gonna be
very thick and so it's gonna generate a
lot of data and over time and so with
Bitcoin it's coming on for 11 years and
you've got around 300 gigs worth of data
theorems around 300 gigs and they're
younger file coin could be bigger and
bigger sooner if it's successful and so
the cost of being able to say I add
hundred thousand you do this increases
as that height increases and then you
have to have all the data you know one
day Bitcoin will have terabytes worth of
data and and you know disk is cheap
network will get cheap as cheap as well
it's not like this stuff is
insurmountable but there is a cost to
having to say height and so then you end
up minimizing the trust that comes with
with blockchains because as you see now
with Bitcoin there's not that many full
nodes and the number of full nodes has
been reducing over time and so we're not
having to use these third parties and so
you go to a Bitcoin a blockchain
Explorer and you say I want to
understand what's in this block and then
you have to trust them that they're
giving you the right information at high
100000 it's doing this okay I'm trusting
you that you know the height and I'm
also trusting you for all these other
reasons because I don't want to run a
full node to understand that data so
this trust relationship breaks down as
it becomes weren't pretty impractical to
have the whole thing so the more you can
verifiably say this is likely data from
that blockchain and this is
not only likely but this is certainly
what the data says so anyway that's I
mean that's been really interesting
philosophical stuff there that I hadn't
liked I had we had this argument with
file Coyne last year but I hadn't really
dived as deeply into the blockchain
these these cryptocurrencies until this
year and so there's some really
interesting focal points for all the
work we're doing that is coming out of
this anyway moving on I did some minor
clean up in the specs repos called pr's
and issues that just moved on and closed
merged as eric mentioned i did we just
we discussed some near-term priorities
for dock work in the specs repo i want
to take some he's these gist's that he
throws out full of these really good
ideas and turn them into more formal
spec documents if their concepts or
specs and and with that I'm currently
working on the one that he came up with
last week which was codec completeness
which is builds on some work that's been
mulling around for a little while about
the spectrum of completeness for any IP
LD codec when considering that IP LD it
has an aim to be able to describe a
large number of content interest formats
from get to Bitcoin and and then and
then along that continuum of
completeness towards things like dag
Seabourn Dec Jason which are close to
being able to fully describe our ideal
state of arbitrary shaped somewhat
arbitrarily shaped data not just these
specific formats and so what does that
spectrum look like and what does it mean
to move up towards the ideal and what is
the ideal and so Eric caption that
really well and he's just I'm trying to
turn that into a doc but there will be
some pivotal things where we have
discussions around what does this ideal
mean particularly the thing about
sorting sorting
that we've stumbled on a couple of times
together that we need to stumble on
properly and really get the shared
understanding of what what it means for
things to be sorted and at what level
and with what default all that sort of
stuff that's really tricky actually but
it's it's good to get that out in this
way because the dark at the moments
basically says there is an ideal end of
the spectrum that we don't exist at yet
so we could push further but it would
mean defining our own format or changing
the way we're using seaboard for example
we could do that and push towards the
ideal even further but it might be that
at that ideal end you're just in a realm
of compromises and you're just making
the right compromise for your use case
and lastly I will be on family holiday
from the end of this week and for next
week but I'll be just working with
reduced output I'm not planning on
disappearing but I probably won't show
up to next week's meeting because I'd
like to sleep in so yeah that's
unacceptable
all right anything else anyone wants to
discuss I want to know when a radish
plant explaining to work on dirt it's
extremely tempted to because it would
probably really really easy and I just
it's just a matter of how much bang for
the buck that is and so there's so many
coins that would be really fun to throw
out there but yeah probably not but it
probably wouldn't be hard cuz it's just
it's like an easy for could bitcoins Oh
I just don't I don't know if people
would take us seriously if we had a
dogecoin codex pecking our repo we were
educating all the crypto cats I mean
come on
it'd be like it yeah be like the TCPA a
carrier pigeon
RFC anyway and I if one information for
Chris if you work on the comb PDF and
look also into the actual rust fill
proofs code and you wonder why isn't
this thing just a screaming operation it
could be it's on my dual it to do this
but I haven't gotten into it so just
just in case you wanna like why is it do
things in memory or on disk or whatever
and you could just stream it you can so
just yeah it was like yeah I would
expect this tumbler across it and then
yeah what if there's a reason there's no
reason on that note on that note vodka
because I do describe all that to Chris
but there is this all could bit where
the compare calculator has to
re-implement the whole compete generate
function because the rust filled proofs
only only allows using the Merkel local
tree algorithm with a specific storage
backing storage cache storage and we can
we we need memory storage and there's no
way with the rust field proofs API just
switch their storage so you have to
re-implement a whole variety I think
that I think I fixed that one I was
looking at the other day and it still
it's like all hardwired the typo here it
is in there so that's all good but it
just it just means we're implementing
like 10 lines of code yeah but it by the
ideal not to have to re-implement yes
but like no changes like those would be
I'm not sure if these days but it should
be fairly easy to get in if there's busy
an easy way to do it in the rust
foolproof screw directly because I as I
said I actually thought I did this
already but if I haven't then
yeah we can sort of Chris Montagu about
that so Chris there you go vocals the
one to ping about all that stuff okay
cool
alright and then I think very good and
then yeah I close the meeting and see
everyone in in a week bye everyone
[Music]